<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: A Newspaper Story</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Newspaper Story</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>On the fourteenth day of August 190- a tiny paragraph appeared at the foot of an unimportant page in London’s most sober journal to the effect that the secretary of state for foreign affairs had been much annoyed by the receipt of a number of threatening letters, and was prepared to pay a reward of fifty pounds to any person who would give such information as would lead to the apprehension and conviction of the person or persons, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> The few people who read London’s most sober journal thought, in their ponderous Athenæum Club way, that it was a remarkable thing that a minister of state should be annoyed at anything; more remarkable that he should advertise his annoyance, and most remarkable of all that he could imagine for one minute that the offer of a reward would put a stop to the annoyance.</p>
			<p>News editors of less sober but larger circulated newspapers, wearily scanning the dull columns of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Old Sobriety</i>, read the paragraph with a newly acquired interest.</p>
			<p>“Hullo, what’s this?” asked Smiles of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Comet</i>, and cut out the paragraph with huge shears, pasted it upon a sheet of copy-paper and headed it:</p>
			<p>“Who is Sir Philip’s Correspondent?” As an afterthought⁠—the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Comet</i> being in Opposition⁠—he prefixed an introductory paragraph, humorously suggesting that the letters were from an intelligent electorate, grown tired of the shilly-shallying methods of the Government.</p>
			<p>The news editor of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Evening World</i>⁠—a white-haired gentleman of deliberate movement⁠—read the paragraph twice, cut it out carefully, read it again and, placing it under a paperweight, very soon forgot all about it.</p>
			<p>The news editor of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Megaphone</i>, which is a very bright newspaper indeed, cut the paragraph as he read it, rang a bell, called a reporter, all in a breath so to speak, and issued a few terse instructions.</p>
			<p>“Go down to Portland Place, try to see Sir Philip Ramon, secure the story of that paragraph⁠—why he is threatened, what he is threatened with; get a copy of one of the letters if you can. If you cannot see Ramon, get hold of a secretary.”</p>
			<p>And the obedient reporter went forth.</p>
			<p>He returned in an hour in that state of mysterious agitation peculiar to the reporter who has got a “beat.” The news editor duly reported to the editor-in-chief, and that great man said, “That’s very good, that’s, very good indeed”⁠—which was praise of the highest order.</p>
			<p>What was “very good indeed” about the reporter’s story may be gathered from the half-column that appeared in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Megaphone</i> on the following day:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<header>
					<p>Cabinet Minister in Danger<br/>
					Threats to Murder the Foreign Secretary<br/>
					“The Four Just Men” Plot to Arrest the Passage of the Aliens Extradition Bill<br/>
					Extraordinary Revelations</p>
				</header>
				<p>Considerable comment was excited by the appearance in the news columns of yesterday’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">National Journal</i> of the following paragraph:</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p>The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (Sir Philip Ramon) has during the past few weeks been the recipient of threatening letters, all apparently emanating from one source and written by one person. These letters are of such a character that they cannot be ignored by his Majesty’s Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who hereby offers a reward of Fifty Pounds (£50) to any person or persons, other than the actual writer, who will lay such information as will lead to the apprehension and conviction of the author of these anonymous letters.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>So unusual was such an announcement, remembering that anonymous and threatening letters are usually to be found daily in the letter-bags of every statesman and diplomat, that the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Daily Megaphone</i> immediately instituted inquiries as to the cause for this unusual departure.</p>
				<p>A representative of this newspaper called at the residence of Sir Philip Ramon, who very courteously consented to be seen.</p>
				<p>“It is quite an unusual step to take,” said the great Foreign Secretary, in answer to our representative’s question, “but it has been taken with the full concurrence of my colleagues of the Cabinet. We have reasons to believe there is something behind the threats, and I might say that the matter has been in the hands of the police for some weeks past.</p>
				<p>“Here is one of the letters,” and Sir Philip produced a sheet of foreign notepaper from a portfolio, and was good enough to allow our representative to make a copy.</p>
				<p>It was undated, and beyond the fact that the handwriting was of the flourishing, effeminate variety that is characteristic of the Latin races, it was written in good English.</p>
				<p>It ran:</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Your Excellency⁠—</p>
					<p>The Bill that you are about to pass into law is an unjust one. It is calculated to hand over to a corrupt and vengeful Government men who now in England find an asylum from the persecutions of despots and tyrants. We know that in England opinion is divided upon the merits of your Bill, and that upon your strength, and your strength alone, depends the passing into law of the Aliens Political Offences Bill.</p>
					<p>Therefore it grieves us to warn you that unless your Government withdraws this Bill, it will be necessary to remove you, and not alone you, but any other person who undertakes to carry into law this unjust measure.</p>
					<footer>
						<p>(Signed) <span epub:type="z3998:sender">Four Just Men</span></p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
				<p>“The Bill referred to,” Sir Philip resumed, “is of course the Aliens Extradition (Political Offences) Bill, which, had it not been for the tactics of the Opposition, might have passed quietly into law last session.”</p>
				<p>Sir Philip went on to explain that the Bill was called into being by the insecurity of the succession in Spain.</p>
				<p>“It is imperative that neither England nor any other country should harbour propagandists who, from the security of these, or other shores, should set Europe ablaze. Coincident with the passage of this measure similar Acts or proclamations have been made in every country in Europe. In fact, they are all in existence, having been arranged to come into law simultaneously with ours, last session.”</p>
				<p>“Why do you attach importance to these letters?” asked the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Daily Megaphone</i> representative.</p>
				<p>“Because we are assured, both by our own police and the continental police, that the writers are men who are in deadly earnest. The ‘<b>Four Just Men</b>,’ as they sign themselves, are known collectively in almost every country under the sun. Who they are individually we should all very much like to know. Rightly or wrongly, they consider that justice as meted out here on earth is inadequate, and have set themselves about correcting the law. They were the people who assassinated General Trelovitch, the leader of the Serbian Regicides; they hanged the French Army Contractor Conrad in the Place de la Concorde⁠—with a hundred policemen within call. They shot Hermann le Blois, the poet-philosopher, in his study for corrupting the youth of the world with his reasoning.”</p>
				<p>The Foreign Secretary then handed to our representative a list of the crimes committed by this extraordinary quartet.</p>
				<p>Our readers will recollect the circumstance of each murder, and it will be remembered that until today⁠—so closely have the police of the various nationalities kept the secret of the Four Men⁠—no one crime has been connected with the other; and certainly none of the circumstances which, had they been published, would have assuredly revealed the existence of this band, have been given to the public before today.</p>
				<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Daily Megaphone</i> is able to publish a full list of sixteen murders committed by the four men.</p>
				<p>“Two years ago, after the shooting of le Blois, by some hitch in their almost perfect arrangements, one of the four was recognized by a detective as having been seen leaving le Blois’s house on the Avenue Kléber, and he was shadowed for three days, in the hope that the four might be captured together. In the end he discovered he was being watched, and made a bolt for liberty. He was driven to bay in a café in Bordeaux⁠—they had followed him from Paris; and before he was killed he shot a sergeant de ville and two other policemen. He was photographed, and the print was circulated throughout Europe, but who he was or what he was, even what nationality he was, is a mystery to this day.”</p>
				<p>“But the four are still in existence?”</p>
				<p>Sir Philip shrugged his shoulders. “They have either recruited another, or they are working short-handed,” he said.</p>
				<p>In conclusion the Foreign Secretary said:</p>
				<p>“I am making this public through the press, in order that the danger which threatens, not necessarily myself, but any public man who runs counter to the wishes of this sinister force, should be recognized. My second reason is that the public may in its knowledge assist those responsible for the maintenance of law and order in the execution of their office, and by their vigilance prevent the committal of further unlawful acts.”</p>
				<p>Inquiries subsequently made at Scotland Yard elicited no further information on the subject beyond the fact that the Criminal Investigation Department was in communication with the chiefs of the continental police.</p>
				<p>The following is a complete list of the murders committed by the “Four Just Men,” together with such particulars as the police have been able to secure regarding the cause for the crimes. We are indebted to the Foreign Office for permission to reproduce the list.</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p><i>London</i>, October 7, 1899.⁠—Thomas Cutler, master tailor, found dead under suspicious circumstances. Coroner’s jury returned verdict of “Willful murder against some person or persons unknown.”</p>
					<p>(Cause of murder ascertained by police: Cutler, who was a man of some substance, and whose real name was Bentvitch, was a sweater of a particularly offensive type. Three convictions under the Factory Act. Believed by the police there was a further and more intimate cause for the murder not unconnected with Cutler’s treatment of women employees.)</p>
					<p><i>Liège</i>, February 28, 1900.⁠—Jacques Ellerman, prefect: shot dead returning from the Opera House. Ellerman was a notorious evil liver, and upon investigating his affairs after his death it was found that he had embezzled nearly a quarter of a million francs of the public funds.</p>
					<p><i>Sattle</i> (Kentucky), October 1900.⁠—Judge Anderson. Found dead in his room, strangled. Anderson had thrice been tried for his life on charges of murder. He was the leader of the Anderson faction in the Anderson-Hara feud. Had killed in all seven of the Hara clan, was three times indicted and three times released on a verdict of “Not guilty.” It will be remembered that on the last occasion, when charged with the treacherous murder of the Editor of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Sattle Star</i>, he shook hands with the packed jury and congratulated them.</p>
					<p><i>New York</i>, October 30, 1900.⁠—Patrick Welch, a notorious grafter and stealer of public moneys. Sometime City Treasurer; moving spirit in the infamous Street Paving Syndicate; exposed by the <i>New York Journal</i>. Welch was found hanging in a little wood on Long Island. Believed at the time to have been suicide.</p>
					<p><i>Paris</i>, March 4, 1901.⁠—Madame Despard.⁠—Asphyxiated. This also was regarded as suicide till certain information came to hands of French police. Of Madame Despard nothing good can be said. She was a notorious “dealer in souls.”</p>
					<p><i>Paris</i>, March 4, 1902 (exactly a year later).⁠—Monsieur Gabriel Lanfin, Minister of Communication. Found shot in his brougham in the Bois de Boulogne. His coachman was arrested, but eventually discharged. The man swore he heard no shot or cry from his master. It was raining at the time, and there were few pedestrians in the Bois.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>(Here followed ten other cases, all on a par with those quoted above, including the cases of Trelovitch and le Blois.)</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>It was undoubtedly a great story.</p>
			<p>The editor-in-chief, seated in his office, read it over again and said, “Very good indeed.”</p>
			<p>The reporter⁠—whose name was Smith⁠—read it over and grew pleasantly warm at the consequences of his achievement.</p>
			<p>The foreign secretary read it in bed as he sipped his morning tea, and frowningly wondered if he had said too much.</p>
			<p>The chief of the French police read it⁠—translated and telegraphed⁠—in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper" xml:lang="fr">Le Temps</i>, and furiously cursed the talkative Englishman who was upsetting his plans.</p>
			<p>In Madrid, at the Café de la Paix, in the Place of the Sun, Manfred, cynical, smiling, and sarcastic, read extracts to three men⁠—two pleasantly amused, the other heavy-jowled and pasty of face, with the fear of death in his eyes.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
